The 4 or 4 template is actually pretty simple.
According to WordPress this file must be named for all four dot P. HP.
WordPress doesn't have any recommendations for this page so we're going to keep it really simple.
Create a file named forum for dot P. HP and let's copy the code from the page template into this template.
I'm going to get rid of everything except the header and footer then I'm going to open the forum for
h t email static template copy everything from the page title to the content into the WordPress template
like so
I'm going to make the most of this tech translatable using the underscore e function.
Remember to set the text domain.
We have this search form that we can easily replace with the Get search form function this function
will search for a file called Search formed up BHP and load it.
We already created this template in a previous lecture so we're just reusing it here.
Go to your site and try visiting a completely random you out.
You should see something similar to what I see.
I've said it 100 times and I'll say it again.
WordPress takes care of handling which templates to display.
All we have to do is follow the naming conventions and create the templates.
WordPress will make all queries and run any functions necessary to display a page now that we finished
the forum for template.
Let's begin working on the category template.
Here is the load order for the category template.
WordPress will search for a template named category followed by B slug name.
Afterwards it will search for the template ID named category followed by the idea of the category.
Next it'll search for the category and archive templates in that order.
The category template is specifically for category pages.
The archive template is used to display posts in chronological order unlike the category template.
The archive template is used for various pieces of pages like tags dates etc..
Let's get started with creating the template.
It's basically going to be a copy of the index template.
WordPress says we have to name this file category dot P HP.
So let's create that file and then copy everything from the index template into the category template
if we take a look at the static version of the category template.
There's only 2 differences between the category template and the index template and that is this strip
with the title.
There is also no breaking news widget so we have to remove that as well.
First let's tackle this title at the top.
Go back to the editor and OPEN THE CATEGORY dot HDMI out file from the static H2 UML category template
we can just copy and paste the page titles section like so
we replace the text with the function the archive title
this template tag.
It's a special kind of template tag that doesn't need to be used inside a loop.
Instead this tag will check the main query and grab the archive title.
WordPress considers this template an archive template.
An archive is exactly what it sounds like.
It is a list of posts.
The category template is a special kind of archive template because it will display a list of posts
based on a category you can find more information about the archive title function at the developer
documentation.
I'll provide a link to this in the resource section for the description we can use the archive description
function which will output the description if there is one.
Lastly let's remove the breaking news widget.
If we refresh the page you'll notice that the title is updated.
That's pretty much all the rest of this template.
Something special about categories is that you can get even more specific with your designs.
Let's take a look at the template hierarchy again.
There's this section that describe which templates have precedence over others.
Right now we're using the category dot P HP template.
If this template didn't exist then WordPress would load the archive dot the HP template.
If that template didn't exist then the index dot P HP template would be the default right above these
three are more specific dynamic templates you can create a template for a specific idea or slug.
Let's explore how to do that.
I'm going to go to the categories in my admin dashboard and view a particular category.
If you look at the URL bar you should see something along the lines of tag underscore ideas followed
by the idea of the category let's generate a template for this category as instructed by the template
hierarchy in order to create a template for a specific category we can use the slug or eat the slug
is prioritized first though I'm going to create a file named category dash followed by the idea of the
category and then add up to HP.
Then I'm going to copy everything from the category template into this template.
To make this template a little more unique than the rest I'm going to add some E M tags right after
the title with a class of text dash danger
the text inside can be anything you want.
I'm just going to put something like important if we did everything but we should be able to see this
text appear in red on our template.
If you go back to the admin dashboard then you should be able to click the View category button.
As expected we now have the important text appearing.
Of course you don't have to use the I.D. let's try using the slug.
Now if you go back to that admin category page you should see the field for the slug rather than using
the I.D. we can use the slug itself.
I'm going to copy this slug and then I'm going to rename the category file we just created using the
slug
after doing this.
We should get the same result as before.
I'm going to refresh my page and we should still see the text important appear.
This is great.
Now we know how to customize and create specific templates for categories in some scenarios creating
a template can be a bit excessive.
If you only want to apply some C Ss changes luckily WordPress will generate classes for you to use if
you inspect the element and search for the body tag then you should see the category followed by the
I.D..
If you can recall the body class function generates this for you so you can use it for applying CSF
to certain pages.
It's always good practice to take advantage of these classes when possible.
I'm going to open the custom dot CFS file and apply some CFS all I'm doing here is changing the page
title color to yellow.
If I refresh the page then you should see the text changed to yellow.
As I said it in the custom Nazi SS file.
This looks horrendous but it does get my point across before I wrap up this lecture.
You may be wondering why bother creating the category template when the index template is almost the
same.
This is because your theme should be flexible by having separate templates.
You make it easy to apply changes to specific types of content.
Having a file bloated with code is hard to maintain.
I want you to make it a habit to create templates for all types of pages as this allows for more flexibility.
The index template should be loaded only when any other template is not suitable for the job.
I'm not saying the index template is bad but if you rely on more than half of your pages to use the
index template you'll just make it harder to customize in the future when you need to.